Hygeia Project
Database Documentation
Version 2

Table of Contents:

1. users
2. inventory
3. foods
4. components
5. history
6. favorites
7. meals

Purpose: To explain the usage and contents of the database.

Table 1: users
This table stores user and account information. Each record refers to a unique
user.

    A. integer uid

        The uid field is the user id field. This contains a positive integer 
        that is assigned to each user on signup. The uid of 0 is reserved for
        identifying system-wide records. This field is set to automatically
        increment, so there is no need to specify it when creating a new user.
        This field is the preferred field for searching or looking up a user.
        
    B. text username
    
        The username field is the user's actual name. Full name or first name 
        only is YET TO BE DECIDED. 
        
    C. text hpwd
    
        The hpwd field is the hashed copy of the user's password. The specific
        hashing algorithm is the MD5 (hygeia.Encryption.MD5). Hashes will be
        stored as strings.
        
    D. text email
    
        The email field is the user's email address. 
        
    E. height real
    
        The height in inches. 
        
    F. weight real
    
        The weight field is a double precision number containing the user's
        weight in pounds.
        
Table 2: inventory
This table contains the inventory for all users in the system. Each record in 
this table is a food item in a user's inventory. 

    A. integer iid
        
        The iid field is the inventory id field, which serves as a key for
        inventory table entries. This field is the preferred way to perform
        searches. Each record in this table has a unique iid, which is assigned
        automatically. Items in an inventory should be deleted by this field.
        
    B. integer uid
    
        The uid field provides the user id of the user to whom the record 
        belongs. A user's inventory can be found by selecting all records that
        have the user's id in this field. 
        
    C. integer fid
    
        The fid field is the food id field, which contains the id of the food
        contained in a user's inventory. This field links to the foods table.
        
    D. integer count
    
        The count field is the amount of the food item in the user's inventory.
        This will be the number of servings, or common measurements of the item. 
        
Table 3: foods
This table lists all of the foods available to the system and their nutrition
information. Each record is a food item with it's information.
    
    A. integer fid
    
        The fid field is the food id, which is the key for this table. It is
        automatically assigned when a record is inserted into the table. It is 
        the preferred way of searching the table.
        
    B. integer uid
    
        The uid field is the user id of the user that entered the food item
        into the system. Each user should only be able to see the food items
        that were entered by that user and that are available system-wide.
        System-wide food items have a uid of zero. 
        
    C. text name
    
        The name field is the name of the food item. Ideally, all searches of 
        the table should be done by fid or uid, and not by specific names. This 
        field should be searched if trying to auto-complete a user's search. 

    D. integer weight
    
        The weight field is the weight of the item in grams.

    E. integer factor
    
        The factor field converts the weight of the item to the common
        measurement of that item, eg. 110 grams to one orange.
    
    F. integer calories
    
    G. integer carbohydrates
    
    H. integer protein
    
    I. integer fat
    
Table 4: components
This table contains the components of both user-specified and system-wide meals.
Each record is a food item, or component, of a meal.

    A. integer cid
    
        The cid field is the component id and key for each record in the table. 
        This field automatically increments, therefore it does not need to be
        specified when inserting new records. This field is the preferred way of
        searching the table.
        
    B. integer mid
    
        The mid field is the meal id, which is used to link all components of
        one meal together. Each meal is assigned a meal id, and all components
        will be inserted into the table individually but sharing the meal id.
        All of the components of a meal may be obtained by selecting all records
        that have the meal id of the requested meal. 
        
    C. integer fid
    
        The fid field is the food id, which is the food id of the food being
        specified by the record.
        
    D. integer count
    
        The count field specifies the amount in servings or common measurements
        that is needed to produce the meal.
        
Table 5: history
This table stores the history for all users. Each record is a meal consumed
by a user.

    A. integer hid
    
        The hid field is the history id field, which is the id and key for the
        table. This field is the preferred way of searching the table. This
        field automatically increments and does not need to be specified when
        inserting a new record into the table.
        
    B. integer mid
    
        The mid field is the meal id field, which is the id of meal eaten by
        the user. 
        
    C. integer uid
    
        The uid field is the user id of of the user that consumed the meal. The
        history of a user can be obtained by selecting all records with the
        user's id in the uid field.
        
    D. timestamp occurence
    
        The occurence field is the timestamp of when the user consumed the meal.
        This field contains both the date and the time. This field can be 
        accessed in Java via the java.sql.Timestamp class.
        
Table 6: favorites
This table contains the favorite meals for all users. Each record is a meal
selected by a user as a favorite.

    A. integer fid
        
        The fid field is the favorites id, which is the key for this table.
        This field automatically increments, and does not need to be specified
        when inserting a record into the table.
        
    B. integer mid
    
        The mid field is the meal id of the meal chosen by a user as a 
        favorite.
        
    C. integer uid
    
        The uid field is the user id of the user that chose the meal as a 
        favorite. To obtain all of a user's favorites, select all the records
        that have the user's id in the uid field. 
        
Table 7: meals
This table provides the nutrition information for each meal. Each record is a
meal. 

    A. integer mid
    
        The mid field is the meal id and is the key for this table. Searches of
        this table should be done by this field. This field is automatically
        incremented, so this field does not need to be included when inserting
        new records.
       
    B. integer uid
    
        The uid field is the user id, which is the user id of the user that
        entered the meal into the system. If the meal is to be used system-wide,
        the user id should be zero. A user should only be shown the meals 
        entered by that user and the system-wide meals.
    
    C. integer calories
    
    D. integer carbohydrates
    
    E. integer protein
    
    F. integer fat
    
    

